[Private preview] Add docs for Cloud Connect + AutoOps for self-managed clusters (#2287)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/monitor/autoops/cc-connect-self-managed-to-autoops.md

---
applies_to:
  deployment:

>     self:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    self:
    eck:
    ece:
```

navigation_title: Connect your self-managed cluster
---

# Connect your self-managed cluster to AutoOps

To use AutoOps with your self-managed cluster, you first need to create an {{ecloud}} account or log in to your existing account. Once you choose to connect AutoOps to your self-managed cluster, an installation wizard will guide you through the steps of installing Elastic Agent to send metrics from your self-managed cluster to AutoOps in {{ecloud}}.  

Complete the steps in the following subsections to connect your cluster to AutoOps. The setup only takes about 10 minutes.

## Prerequisites

Ensure you meet the following requirements before proceeding:

> * You have an [Enterprise self-managed license](https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions) or an active self-managed [free trial](https://cloud.elastic.co/registration).
> * Your cluster is on a [supported {{es}} version](https://www.elastic.co/support/eol).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* It's on a [supported {{es}} version](https://www.elastic.co/support/eol).
* You have an [Enterprise self-managed license](https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions) or an active self-managed [free trial](https://cloud.elastic.co/registration).
```
Just trying to rephrase and/or reorder, so that we avoid any implications about the user as opposed to the system.

* The agent you install for the connection is allowed to send metrics outside your organization to {{ecloud}}.

> * You have a dedicated user with following permissions to set up the Elastic Agent:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You have a dedicated user with the following permissions to set up {{agent}}:
```

    | Setting | Privileges |
    | --- | --- |
    | Cluster privileges | `monitor`, `read_ilm`, and `read_slm` |
    | Index privileges | `*` indices: `monitor`, `view_index_metadata` <br><br> `.kibana*` indices: `read`  |

## Connect to AutoOps

:::{note}
:::{include} /deploy-manage/monitor/_snippets/single-cloud-org.md
:::
:::

1. Go to your {{ecloud}} home page.
    * If you already have an {{ecloud}} account, log in to [{{ecloud}}](https://cloud.elastic.co?page=docs&placement=docs-body). 
    * If you don’t have an {{ecloud}} account, [sign up](/deploy-manage/deploy/elastic-cloud/create-an-organization.md) and create an organization.
2. In the **Connected clusters** section, select **Connect self-managed cluster**. 

> 3. On the **Cloud Connected Services** page, under **AutoOps**, select **Connect**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. On the **Cloud Connected Services** page, in the **AutoOps** section, select **Connect**.
```
As part of our accessibility guidance we avoid directional terms since they don't apply for people using screen readers.

> ### Select installation method

Author: This heading appears in the UI like this, and I want to keep them consistent for clarity

Your cluster ships metrics to AutoOps with the help of the Elastic Agent. 

:::{important} 
Using AutoOps for your self-managed cluster requires a new, dedicated Elastic Agent. You must install an agent even if you already have an existing one for other purposes.
:::

Select one of the following methods to install the Elastic Agent:

* Kubernetes
* Docker
* Linux
* Windows

> ### Configure agent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configure {{agent}}
```

Depending on your selected installation method, you may have to provide the following information to create the installation command:

* **{{es}} endpoint URL**: The agent will use this URL to identify which cluster you want to connect to AutoOps.
* **Preferred authentication method**: Choose from the following:
    * **API key**: [Create an API key](/solutions/observability/apm/grant-access-using-api-keys.md) to grant access to the cluster.
    * **Basic**: Assign a username and password to a user with the required [permissions](#prerequisites).
* **System architecture**: Select the system architecture of the machine running the agent.
* **Metrics storage location**: Select where to store your metrics data from the list of available cloud service providers and regions.

> ### Install agent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Install {{agent}}
```

Author: Same as above. This heading appears in the UI like this, so I'll skip using the variable here

> ### Install agent

Author: This heading appears in the UI like this, so I'll skip using the variable here

| Environment variable | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `AUTOOPS_OTEL_URL` | The {{ecloud}} URL to which the Elastic Agent ships data. The URL is generated based on the CSP and region you pick. <br> This URL shouldn't be edited. |
| `AUTOOPS_ES_URL` | The URL where the Elastic Agent communicates with {{es}}. |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_READ_API_KEY` | The API key for API key authentication to access the cluster. It combines the `${id}:${api_key}` values. <br> This variable shouldn't be used with `ELASTICSEARCH_READ_USERNAME` and `ELASTICSEARCH_READ_PASSWORD`. |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_READ_USERNAME` | The username for basic authentication to access the cluster. <br> This variable should be used with `ELASTICSEARCH_READ_PASSWORD`. |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_READ_PASSWORD` | The password for basic authentication to access the cluster. <br> This variable should be used with `ELASTICSEARCH_READ_USERNAME`. |
| `ELASTIC_CLOUD_CONNECTED_MODE_API_KEY` | The {{ecloud}} API Key used to register the cluster. <br> This key shouldn't be edited. |
| `AUTOOPS_TEMP_RESOURCE_ID` | The temporary ID for the current installation wizard. |

> 3. Ensure you meet the prerequisite for [permissions](#prerequisites) to run the command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Ensure that you have the required [permissions](#prerequisites) to run the command.
```
Maybe this reads a bit better, but I'm not sure. :-)

    :::

5. Return to the wizard and select **I have run the command**.

It may take a few minutes for your cluster details to be validated and the first metrics to be shipped to AutoOps.

If the connection is unsuccessful, an error message will appear with a possible reason for the failure and recommended next steps. For a list of these errors, refer to [Potential errors](/deploy-manage/monitor/autoops/cc-cloud-connect-autoops-troubleshooting.md#potential-errors).

Sometimes, an exact reason for the failure cannot be determined. In this case, explore [additional resources](/troubleshoot/index.md#troubleshoot-additional-resources) or [contact us](/troubleshoot/index.md#contact-us).

### Launch AutoOps

If the connection is successful, AutoOps will start analyzing your metrics and reporting on any issues found. Depending on the size of your cluster, this process can take up to 30 minutes. 

Once the account is ready, the **Open AutoOps** button will appear. Select it to launch AutoOps. 

Learn more about [AutoOps](/deploy-manage/monitor/autoops.md).

## Access AutoOps

> Once you've completed the setup, you can access AutoOps for your self-managed cluster at any time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you've completed the setup, you can access AutoOps for your self-managed cluster at any time.
```
(I'm not sure if it's still there but our style guidelines recommended against "once" since it could be confusing for non-native English speakers who might expect it's primary meaning as 'one time').

Author: I've been told this before. Sorry, I forgot! Thanks for pointing it out
